# phasedOutGame
A project for the final project of the subject COMP10001 Foundations of Computing 2017 Semester 1 University of Melbourne

## What is this
This code is essentially an automated player for a card game that was made for this project called Phased Out.
Unfortunately, the full rules for the game is no longer available to me as I already finished the subject, but I will try to explain the game as best I can.
If anyone has the rules, by any means contact me so that I can upload it.

## Game Rules (incomplete)
Essentially you are making certain combinations of the card. There are a few types of combiantions. This is taken from the website that Unimelb use, groklearning.com

1. A set of three cards of the same value, e.g. ['2C', '2S', '2H'] represents a set of three Twos. Note that the set may include Wilds, but must include at least two "natural" cards (i.e. non-Wild cards), which define the value. Note also that the sequence of the cards is not significant for this group type.
2. A set of 7 cards of the same suit, e.g. ['2C', '2C', '4C', 'KC', '9C', 'AH', 'JC'] represents a set of seven Clubs. Note that the set may include Wilds (as we see in our example, with the Ace of Hearts), but must include at least two "natural" cards (i.e. non-Wild card), which define the suit. Note also that the sequence of the cards is not significant for this group type.
3. A set of four cards of the same value, e.g. ['4H', '4S', 'AC', '4C'] represents a set of four Fours. Note that the set may include Wilds (as we see in our example, with the Ace of Clubs), but must include at least two "natural" cards (i.e. non-Wild cards), which define the value. Note also that the sequence of the cards is not significant for this group type.
4. A run of eight cards, e.g. ['4H', '5S', 'AC', '7C', '8H', 'AH', '0S', 'JC'] represents a run of eight cards. Note that the set may include Wilds (as we see in our example, with the Ace of Clubs standing in for a Six and the Ace of Hearts standing in for a Nine), but must include at least two "natural" cards (i.e. non-Wild cards). Note also that the sequence of the cards is significant for this group type, and that ['4H', '5S', 'AC', '8H', '7C', 'AH', '0S', 'JC'], e.g., is not a valid run of eight, as it is not in sequence.
5. A run of four cards of the same colour, e.g. ['4H', '5D', 'AC', '7H'] represents a run of four Red cards. Note that the set may include Wilds (as we see in our example, with the Ace of Clubs standing in for a Red Six), but must include at least two "natural" cards (i.e. non-Wild cards), which define the colour. Note also that the sequence of the cards is significant for this group type, and that ['4H', '5D', '7H', 'AC'] is not a valid run of four cards of the same colour, as it is not in sequence.

And from these combinations, you must have certain combination of these combinations, called ***phase***, to advance the game, here are the types of phases.

1. Two sets of three cards of the same value, e.g. [['2C', '2S', '2H'], ['7H', '7C', 'AH']] represents a set of three Twos and three Sevens. Note that each set may include Wilds (as we see in our example, with the Ace of Hearts), but must include at least two "natural" cards (i.e. non-Wild cards), which define the value.
2. One set of 7 cards of the same suit, e.g. [['2C', '2C', '4C', 'KC', '9C', 'AH', 'JC']] represents a single set of seven Clubs. Note that the set may include Wilds (as we see in our example, with the Ace of Hearts), but must include at least two "natural" cards (i.e. non-Wild cards), which define the suit.
3. Two sets of four cards of the same value, e.g. [['4H', '4S', 'AC', '4C'], ['7H', '7C', 'AH', 'AC']] represents a set of four Fours and a set of four Sevens. Note that each set may include Wilds (as we see in our example, with the two Aces of Clubs and Ace of Hearts), but must include at least two "natural" cards (i.e. non-Wild cards), which define the value.
4. One run of eight cards, e.g. [['4H', '5S', 'AC', '7C', '8H', 'AH', '0S', 'JC']] represents a single run of eight cards. Note that the set may include Wilds (as we see in our example, with the Ace of Clubs standing in for a Six and the Ace of Hearts standing in for a Nine), but must include at least two "natural" cards (i.e. non-Wild cards). Note also that the sequence of the cards is significant for this group type, and that [['4H', '5S', 'AC', '8H', '7C', 'AH', '0S', 'JC']], e.g., is not a valid instance of this phase type, as the run is not in sequence.
5. A run of four cards of the same colour and a set of four cards of the same value, e.g. [['4H', '5D', 'AC', '7H'], ['7H', '7C', 'AH', 'AS']] represents a run of four Red cards and a set of four Sevens. Note that each set may include Wilds (as we see in our example, with the Ace of Clubs standing in for a Red Six, and Ace of Hearts and Ace of Spaces standing in for Sevens), but must include at least two "natural" cards (i.e. non-Wild cards), which define the colour/value. Note also that the sequence of the cards within the run is significant for this group type, and also that the sequence of the two groups is significant, in that the run must come before the set of four.

Whenever the game start you must either take the card from the deck or take the one from the *dump pile of cards*.
A run of the game finishes when there is no longer card on the deck or someone completed a phase. Whenever a run is finished, those who do not completed a phase must count their *score* by counting the values from the card they hold on their hand. The values correspond to the card number. At the end of the game, the one with the lowest score wins.
The whole game finishes when someone completed all the phases or until a certain number of runs are made (which I forgot).
